---
layout: post
title:  "Simple experiment in google forms"
date:   2016-08-22
excerpt: "Psych 3450"
tags: [Psych 3450,experiment]
project: false
comments: false
course: experimental
permalink: courses/experimentalFall2017/googleforms
---

Google forms is a free and user-friendly tool that can be used to conduct some kinds of simple experiments online. Google forms allows you to create questionnaire like polls, then send a link to have other people fill out answers to the questions. The responses are automatically stored in a google spreadsheet. Here's a few tips on getting started.

1. Create a google account. If you already have a gmail address, then you just need to go to the google forms website.

2. Go to the google forms website: https://www.google.com/forms/about/

3. Create a new form by pressing the "+" button

4. A requirement for conducting an experiment is to have more than one condition. If you want to create a between subjects design, then this would mean presenting different situations to participants in the different conditions. This could accomplished in different ways in google forms. For example, you could create two different forms that implement different conditions, and then send different people different links.

5. Using sections. Google forms allows the answers given to one question to lead people to different sections in the form. For example, you could create a first multiple choice question that asks people whether their phone number ends in an odd or even number. Then each answer can link to a unique next section. In this way, the same form can be used to collect data from two different sections.

Time permitting, I will post a complete worked example.
